In this lecture, we'll be implementing these Sporn Act, a function which will allow us to create actors
and place them in the world at runtime.
We'll be using our projecto as the actor to spawn.
And we can do this from the pawn based class because this is where the fire functionality will be handled
before we jump in to supporting our actor.
We're going to want a projectile variable ready to check that the PWN class has a valid concept of what
it's trying to spawn.
So we're gonna be using the projectile based class that we've created.
So in the head, a file we just first want to forward declare the a projectile based class.
And then down below, rather than using a pointer.
We're going to implement the T subclass of type again.
And this means that if you were to expand different types of projectiles from our projectile based class.
So, of course, we'll be passing in the a projectile base as the class type.
I know.
Just name this one.
Projectile class.
We'll also want to expose this to the editor.
So I'll define you property with adits anywhere, access.
Make it Blueprint Read-Only.
Place it in a category named projectile type.
Underly private access.
Projects and I'm starting to get a little bit larger.
So we'll start implementing some comments as we go through.
I'm just going to highlight here that we have a private section with different category sections kind
of housed within this.
We have our components at the moment.
And I have created some space below, which at the moment is for the new projecto variable and potentially
any future variables that create in this class that ready.
We can I go over to our code file and get to spawning this.
So the first thing that we need to include is a link to the tune.
Thanks.
Forward slash actors.
Forward slash, projectile based hedge.
So we're getting the projectile.
Head to class.
Then inside of the fire function, we can finally remove our test log and replace this with a check
for a valid projectile class reference.
So this is done in case that we forget to fill the property and the editor with the type of projectile
which again will lead to errors or crashes because of doing this in C++.
So then assuming that we felt the property, we can move on to supporting the projectile.
For this, we want to make a temporary pointer to the a projectile based class named temp projectile.
This will be equal to the get woad.
Spoon actor of the type a projectile bass.
And then in the Brace's, we have three different arguments required to be filled.
Unfortunately, this seems to be one that the U.S. code doesn't provide snippet hints for.
But I already know that we need a class type, which we already have.
That's going to be our projectile class.
So the thing that we want to spoil it then needs the location and the rotation for its initial spawn
transform.
So this is very similar to things that we've done in the past.
So your challenge here is to complete the function by creating an F vector location named spawn location
and an effort later named spawn rotation.
You can get these by using the projectile spawn point component transforms using the ghetto functions.
And if you're unsure how to do this, then maybe revisit some of the turret rotation functions where
we've used this and retrieved those values in the past.
So pause the video and complete the function by creating those variables.
OK, so the first step was to create a new effector named spawn location.
And this will be equal to the projecto spawn point location.
Remember to get the location from a component we use to get to component location and then for the rotation,
this is very similar.
So we're going to create an effort later named spawn rotation, which will be equal to the projectile
spawn point.
But this time using the get component rotation.
Then finally, we just want to replace the example text that I had here with the relevant variable types,
so the location becomes the spawn location and the rotation becomes the spawn rotation and thus it.
So spawning an actor is as simple as that.
One extra step that we can take is to use our new temp projecto.
And set the owner to be this basically passing in a reference of this class.
The one spawning it as the new parents actor.
This is going to help us with things a little bit later, like checking to ensure the projectile isn't
able to collide with or damage the porn that is spawning it.
And then the final step will be to return to the editor and compile these changes so that we can provide
a projectile class to spawn and test the results.
With that done, if we open the BP underscore porn tank and take a look for the new projecto class slot,
I'm all fill this with the BP underscore projectile bass.
We can do the same thing for the porn turret class.
And again, just noticed that we're only being given the option to select either the projectile based
class, the C++ version or the BP version of it, which is the result that we wanted from implementing
the T subclass of.
Then if we want to press play to test this, our left click to fire a few times with the tank and we
can see that this is working nicely for the tank with the turret class.
We seem to have a little bit of a problem here with the projectiles kind of hanging in the air because
as soon as the projectile class is being spawned, it seems to be overlapping the other projectile classes,
which means that the projectile movement component.
So I'm being told to stop the movement, which is why we're getting this hanging feature kind of happening.
And we can also see some problems from the spring up component that I mentioned a little while back
in previous lectures as they're seeing the projectiles as collisions and moving the camera, which is
just something I said that we'd leave in so that we could see the results.
So it kind of makes sense if you see it happening again in the future.
And we'll fix this when we get to the Project Tidey phase.
For now, let's just fix the projectile issue, though, because that's going to be a much bigger problem,
trying to play the game.
Its objectives aren't moving around properly.
So if we go to the turret blueprint, grab the projectile spawn point and we can just move this forward.
Several units, I think 100 units away from the end of the turret seems pretty good here.
This will just ensure that the collisions are not overlapping with the projectile when it's first spawned.
Even with that done for the turret class, I still have a bit of a problem here because I've given it
a really silly fire.
Right?
It's just firing far too fast.
So if you did anything similar, I'm just going to go back and return to the turret class here.
I don't lower this to something.
There'll be a little bit more realistic for the player to be able to stay with anyway.
And we can see that that's gonna be much better.
So that's stopped the spawning over each other and all of the projectiles and firing the last few things
would be things like addressing the projecto class, still just hanging around in the level.
And we'll be doing that in the next lecture.
When we look at assigning delegates to existing functions, which give us a trigger point so that we
know when to destroy the projectile class.